h1. Google::Geo

A simple, elegant library for getting geocoding information from Google Maps. Very much inspired by the google-geocode gem, but completely dependency free!

h2. Examples
  
  geo = Google::Geo.new API_KEY
  
  addresses = geo.locate '1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA'
  addresses.size # 1, :locate always returns an Array
  
  address = addresses.first
  address.country      # 'US'
  address.city         # 'Mountain View'
  address.full_address # '1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA'  
  address.query        # '1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA'
  address.accuracy     # 8
  address.coordinates  # [-122.084143, 37.421972, 0.0]
  
In the case of sufficiently vague queries, Google::Geo will return more than one:
  
  addresses = geo.locate 'hell'
  addresses.size                # 2
  addresses.map { |a| a.state } # ['PA', 'NC']


You can reverse geocode:

  geo = Google::Geo.new API_KEY
  location = geo.reverse_locate(:lat => 33.998671, :lon => -118.075926).first
  location.city          # => Pico Rivera
  location.state         # => CA
  location.zip           # => 90660
  location.country       # => US
  location.full_address  # => 4952-4958 Tobias Ave, Pico Rivera, CA 90660, USA

You can locate street view
  
  geo = Google::Geo.new API_KEY
  address = geo.locate('1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA').first
  address.street_view   # => Returns an HTML Flash Embed Tag to display street view
  

  geo = Google::Geo.new API_KEY
  location = geo.reverse_locate(:lat => 33.998671, :lon => -118.075926).first
  location.street_view  # => Returns street view for location

h2. Options

If you need to get the results in another language, you can set it like so:

  geo = Google::Geo.new API_KEY
  geo.language = 'de'

where the language code can be anything listed on http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=p9pdwsai2hDMsLkXsoM05KQ&gid=1

h2. Contributors

* Seth Thomas Rasmussen - "http://greatseth.com":http://greatseth.com
* Fernando Barajas - "http://fernyb.net":http://fernyb.net
* Peter Gassner - "http://www.naehrstoff.ch":http://www.naehrstoff.ch

h2. License

(c) 2007-2008 Seth Thomas Rasmussen and released under the WTFPL. See the LICENSE file for details.
